1.  You will have to do in a minute.  the Recording is in progress as very, very nice.  So, instead of just the start straight away right.  With calibrating So may I ask you to look in your camera that little.  Oh round thing on your screen looking to camera and slowly rotate your head in circles up and down left to right, while looking in the camera.  Yes, Okay, thank you very much, then the second step, please look at every participant I name right so i'll be naming you one after another, please look at the participant i'm naming let's start with Joe let's all look at Joe please.  And now let's look at Lois.  And now let's  look at Lucy.  Now let's look at Kelly.  And finaly  let's look at Moderator Gerben  alright, thank you.  So we have calibrated I think we are.  Good to go and.  Let me also for the records.  Like to start a recording as well, one.  thing to my friend, my colleague of technical support, I can only pause or stop the recording I can't start a separate one.  So that is.  OK done right.  we're good to go, ladies will be discussing covid 19 and all its implications, etc, in this session, and also the next two sessions.  feels a bit like a cold start right, not knowing you and just a firing away but we'll get to know each other along the way I would say based on our this but let's let's go back a little while it was my 2020 when it hit right.  and has been a lot of debate also then already how to respond to covid and how do you feel that the British Government respond effectively what's your what's your idea about that, can you tell me how did you experience it and what do you think.  Lucy.
2.  And so I was actually living in another country for the most of the so I wasn't in Briston and i'm obviously very aware of how they handled it, and so, for my experience, because I was living in Asia and.  I didn't think they handled it that well at the start, initially and.  So when I was in Vietnam.  you know , all the borders got shut down immediately and.  And the cases were very low for months and months and months, up until.  About April this year they've gone up so like living there and then having all my family in England, it was yeah I kind of thought that there was things that and the government could have done to.
3.  So, so you were in Vietnam, you, you know what the Vietnam response was but and then you follow the news you, you get an idea of how it's handled in the UK and what did that, I mean.  How is then to be in Vietnam and to see that, from a distance seeing how they are handling it to see Boris Johnson,in the new.
4.  yeah it was.  It was frustrating and because you just want to see your family and I couldn't see my family for so long, and then you know it was like.  Borders are being opened up so quickly, in my opinion, and people were traveling and and and so just straightening because it was obvious, you know that.  They should they should have my opinion it opened up so quickly and because I couldn't leave and go back to Vietnam very easily I was working.  And so yeah it was frustrating, and also, it was worrying because, like you, your family your parents are living in the middle of the pandemic like you know 18 hour flight away and so yeah it was like it was a bit of a tough time.
5.  how's it feel Lois.
6.  I think, with the government, so too much time waiting to see what other countries were doing.  Before making a decision.  I think that was the main problem, one of the main problems.  And they just they were just waiting to see what other countries are doing before they put their foot down said now we're going to lock down we're going to do this, everything is sort of a step behind everybody else.  So I dont think that was done very well at all, and like Lucy said, the opening up of the borders, I don't think people should have been traveling at all, even for business there's no need really for someone to travel to another country.  To go to a few meetings have it on zoom like the rest of.  The countries have been doing so yeah I dont think it was dealt with very well at all.
7.  Okay, so I sense some frustration there, I mean, can you elaborate a little what what what frustrates you then the most in that.  the way it's.
8.  The fact that so many people here were ill so many people here were ill and they didn't seem to there was a strain on the NHS for a start.  I mean  was just where I live, it was ridiculous you couldn't get any appointments that the doctors via zoom or any other means.  The hospitals will run like it on people that work in the NHS and they were just then come home in tears every night, it was just ridiculous so there's a lot of strain across the board, I think.
9.  yeah.  Jo How's it for you.
10.  in terms of the government I think  I think particularly slow. I think they were to timid, I think that.  An extent we were.  Victims of Boris Johnsons political career, because I think he was scared to speak out or his team were scared to do anything that would be adversely looked upon us by the public.  They could see what was happening, and when they put it in lockdown like lois and lucy said they'd actually watched and waited and they knew what was coming and they knew what was happening in our country.  So I think, by the time he went to lock down, I think, already they drove us into a pandemic and I think initially thing that happened to us rather than listening to scientists and having one clear message, there were so many mixed messages that just.
11.  didn't hit last part so many mixed messages.
12.  that people are terrified.  they didn't know what to do you know, can I can I hug my elderly mother and I  do I wear a mask not wear a mask are my children safe at school and they're not safe at school.
13.  But but, of course also a little bit of.  I think, with the benefit of hindsight right, I mean I don't know about you guys, but when was march 20 2020 and people were talking about locking down shutting down the schools, I was thinking now they cannot do that right, I mean how how how how I mean the whole.  society will collapse it's now we know it can be done.  But at that time I was thinking I will be a little bit exaggerating I mean only so many cases etc at first I mean.  In that sense, you can understand the government as well, I would imagine.
14.  You know they're in a bad position aren't they but we vote them in there to govern and and look out for us really and they have all of the scientific and  an expert information and backup.  yeah we wouldn't be privy to.  That's their job isn't it.
15.  Sorry Lois, what you were.
16.  just trying to make everybody happy and please everyone, they just didn't go in that favor.
17. yeah.
18.  Callie is that also your opinion, your feeling about this.
19.  um yeah so i'm also are originally from another country I am  from Romania, so I know more about how the Romanian Government handle it, so I can only sort of.  compare what the UK did with what happened in Romania, and I can also say that it feels like they didn't act as quickly as they should have.  For example, in Romania, schools were shut down when we had around 50 cases, whereas here it's a lot more for them to shut down schools and then they opened up again particular like that schools are very easy way to spread the virus its children.  touch everything put.  You know their hands in their mouth so it's very easy to spread the virus that way, but I also feel like it's a very overwhelming situation for everyone, including the government so it's kind of hard to know what to do.  No one could have been prepared for a pandemic like this, so they had to think under pressure, they had to make fast decisions but they've never been in a situation like this before and.  Like if they try to please everyone, because everybody had people didn't want to wear masks or people didn't want to stay inside or other people prefer to do that, to be safe, so they didn't they were kind of overwhelmed by it, I would say.  And I think it would be the case in most governments, but we would expect like Jo said you'd expect the government to make decisions to help everyone and look out for the people of their country but.  there still people in the end, maybe it's just me trying to cut them some slack but but.  I do think that they could have made better decisions, but I don't know what I would have done, if I were the one who had to call the shots.
20.  I do think he probably had an impossible job.
21.  No one would have yeah.
22.  Exactly yeah.
23.  I also mean it's so I guess also being in our position is to take in popular measures and regardless whether it's in popular but it to do the stuff that needs to be done.  And yes, i'm listening to you i'm whoa most of you are like I don't.  they're not Oh, they didn't do that right they were too worried about remaining popular and they were.  Not focusing on okay what's the situation and what needs to be done.  and  They did did take measures right what measure.  impacted you the most.
24.  Having my son at home for  I mean he was only in nursery he wasn't a school age.  yeah we have a toddler at home and trying to work full time as well was difficult I think he was home is from March, and he went back in July, so it was only a few months, but it was hard.  Yes, realy hard.
25.  yeah hard how.
26.  a toddler run around where you're trying to work.  Just imagine, I mean I my husband came home half days after a while, because i'm just.  Trying to work with the toddler is hard really i'm glad he wasn't at school age, because I wouldn't be able to cope with the homeschooling, that would have been awful, I don’t know how moms and dads coped with that, but yeah that's what impacted me the most yeah.
27.  So, from my understanding, a toddler is two three years old right.
28.  Right yeah Oh, he was two at the time yeah so very demanding.
29.  yeah I can imagine in that then then that's pretty unpopular measure to take, but.  yeah I mean he's you understand where you were you did you understand that .  you were frustrated yeah.
30.  I want him  I did want him at home, it was just having to cope with  work as well luckily work were very understanding and we were good, but you still try your best because you're in.  The beginning of a pandemic you don't know if people are going to lose their job, so you can't kind of step back because you're worried that in the future, they could use that against you.  yeah they didn't clearly, but I know other places, would have, and it was it was just very uneasy.
31.  that's quite a strain I can imagine right I think Okay, this is this is pandemic,  all these news.  People that an illness spreading, which is quite stressful To begin with, then you have all these measures, and you have to your kid has to stay at home and.  There is a squeeze your in because on the one hand, I can imagine you want to take care of your kids and the other hand, you need to do your job, because if you say okay sorry guys not now i'm just take care of toddler here.  That might you might even lose your job in the process as well.
32.  yeah because, as we know, loads of redundancies were made during the pandemic and you just don't want to be one of them, you want to do the job well, but you want to look after your  child and it's just it was very scary.
33.  How now what you know.  If you go back to that.  Was yeah How would you describe your mood your your state of mind in that period.
34.  I think.  I think I had sort of ok I mean it was stressful times but.  I mean it was stressful because I saw the difference in him, he went from seeing friends every day.  To being quite withdrawn, even though it was only a few months, his speech slowed down, so he said he just started sort of putting sentences together and then kind of took a back step and I was like no he needs to go back to that life.  And as soon as.  he did go back his speech was up, he was so much happier I haven't been stuck in a House Luckily, we have a garden but i've been stuck in a House confined to that one space where he used to seeing.  other kids and visiting family and stuff like that it was it wasn't nice to see that that upset me a bit yeah.
35.  Well, I mean I I have kids of my own 10 and 12 but I mean having see your kids suffer I think they're they're not much more things in life that can impact you more right.
36.  Exactly yeah so you just try and do as much as you can for them.  yeah yeah I did notice a difference in him a big difference.
37.  I can also imagine that you something she can  yes Okay, on the one hand, I know I have to keep my kids at home, but the other hand, I mean they're young.  They don't they don't get that ill they're not spreading the disease that much as well, why not just keep those Kindergartens open if you never thought that.
38.  I suppose same time we didn't know really we were getting so many mixed messages that were saying it's like suffering as much, but then.  You don't know if every week there was something different, there was another symptom there was this there was that, so you didn't want to take the risk.  And he could get it bad I do know young kids that, had it and they didn't  they want things just like cold for them basically you don't want to be that statistic that one person.
39.  No.
40.  No then spread it to your family members, your grandparents.
41.  And the nursery workers, the work there, I mean they weren't given their jobs, until the rest of us were really so you don't want the kids to be the super spread is giving it to them.  Then they pass it on to their families and it's just it goes on and on and on yeah yeah.
42.  Okay, thank you for sharing that Lois Thank you and and about how about the others what measure impacted you the most.
43.  I think.  Sorry go ahead and.  Okay.
44.  Callie.
45.  Personally, oh, since I don't have any children or anybody to take care of it there weren't that many measures that personally affected me, but since i'm a university student, I think.  The fact that last year school was all online once had a very big very big impact on me.  both positive and negative because, to be honest, because of the exams were online, I think I did much better than I would have done in an in person exam which wouldn't have an open book, but at the same time I didn't feel like I was really learning much which.  Is kind of the points of going to uni. But.  It was that and also travel bans again just because my family is in Romania, the fact that I couldn't see them and I completely understood it, I mean.  I completely understand why there were travel bans, but it was still kind of hard enough being able to see them and even now certain travel restrictions.  coming here, I recently came back from Romania to the UK and having to take all those tests and quarantine and everything with when i'm double jabbed I thought it was kind of silly but again I don't really know exactly what is best in terms of quarantining and stuff like that.
46.  yeah because what somebody should show you recently, you went to Romania, you, you came back, and if you come back then you have to go through.  Yes, so  quarantine
47.  , well, I did that changed, a few days before I arrived so initially I would have had to take a test before leaving a test after I arrived on day two.  And also quarantine for 14 days, regardless of my initial test result and my day two test result and i'm also double jabbed so that but then that changed before a few days before I arrived I didn't have quarantine anymore, I did have to take both tests, but I didn't have to quarantine.
48.  And just for my understanding, double jabbbed?  You say you have to shots yeah.  yeah actually i'm seeing jab jabbing but that's okay right yes.
49.  yeah I say, I would say shots do, but a lot of.  would say jabs so.
50.  But I also yeah but also make sense of it.  Then you say okay you all say there is,  serious issue, the government had to.  Actually, could have done more faster  to to effectively handle their thing so, and this is where all a Okay, with everything but.  Now i'm listening to you at the sense also a little bit there is there are some regulations now or measures you feel are maybe a bit over the top right, I mean yeah and.  Are there are or has been measures of which you thought I don't know I mean this is this is too much.
51.  I think, with the travel ban a lot of restrictions that are actually more political.  And I mean like you restrict certain countries because you're not friends with them, or whatever, because you don't have a good like like a relationship, for example, Romania, we have fewer cases right now and.  percentage wise, but we still have to go through all the quarantining and the testing and everything, whereas we're less the threat to the UK as the UK to us  travel the other way around that makes sense.  But I don't think i'm qualified enough to say oh yeah, this is not a good restriction or this shouldn't have been the cases to extreme i'm just talking about what affects me and what would have been more convenient for me, but that doesn't mean it would have been a better decision.
52.  yeah okay well for a  bit, but you made you say you're not qualified enough for the one the one hand you're a you have experienced right, you know the situation, Romania, you know the people there, I mean you you're actually the boots on the ground so that gives.  You some qualification right to.  Say little thing about when our  is measure is appropriate or not and listening to you, you say well this this this whole returning to the UK now and all the measures have been taken down that's feels inappropriate.
53.  The quarantine would have.  I get the day two test, because even though I have the vaccine, I can still spread the virus someone who does under someone who's more vulnerable so again, you want to make sure that I would not .  do that.  But I think the quarantine would have been too extreme considering that I'm also taking tests.
54.  Okay, how about you do you feel same if you would be Lucy Johnson lois Johnson or Jo Johnson and  Down Street 10 which you say.  Just better safe than sorry bon Romania that'swould be the quarantine, and I think it's a good measure, how do you agree with that, or how do you feel about this.
55.  This is the thing that really irritates me.  There's a country that’s were cases are rising.  Beyond you know, measured amounts then maybe travel needs to be put on hold for a time from that country, but I think it absolutely has to be based on the scientific numbers.  I think sometimes you think really that country to produce seem to be I don't know another agenda with some of them say, and surely that.  ability to travel or not travel should be quite fluid, because obviously cases change over time and countries change that ways of dealing and.  People are becoming vaccinated and you know there's debates about whether that's a good thing or not a good thing, but you know the science shows that, actually, yes, you know.  you're less likely to get really ill.  potentially less likely to be able to transmit, although I don't know yet is but, so I think it should be fluid and I think, be based on the science, to be honest, I have no desire to go anywhere the last year and a half, which is very inlike  me so that was impacted me personally.
56. so so can you repate that part that you haven't had.
57.  I said I didn't have any desire to go anywhere.  In the last year and a half, but not that I don't travel I just thought okay i'll enjoy because I live in the UK but I actually don’t live in england I live in Wales and just felt I had everything I needed on my own doorstep.
58.  Is you said in the beginning of your answer you said something about what really annoys you what really irritates you, but what what is it that irritates you most he said he said.
59.  That, I am not sure that the travel bans are always based on scientific.
60.  yeah exactly yeah.  And why is that.  Why what what is it that irritates you in that.
61.  Well, I think it's something the situation like this the pandamic.  we're talking about a natural event arent we.  completely.  surpasses any politics or country law and really I think we should be dealing with that as a worldwide immunity, which is a worldwide.  And really basing decisions on the scientific evidence of how the virus behaves and how that impacts people as a worldwide thing I don't really think this is about borders and politics.  So.
62.  yeah, so in that sense also again imagine you'd like to see countries moving together a bit more and not everyone deciding on their own rules and trying to get the vaccinations for their own, but to make it more a joint effort as well.  yeah but how does it make you feel.  Well let's assume that indeed not only scientific.  reasons or reasons to act, but also politics is into play, how does that make you feel guys.  Lucy.
63.  I haven't really know the politics side hasn't really I haven't really focused on it that much to be honest with you.  yeah and because I was in a different country and, for me it was just more than.  The  the hardest part was the not being able to see your family and worrying about the numbers, especially when the numbers are so high in the UK and not being able to get home easily and things like i've not really focus so much on the political side of things.
64.  For it because you were in Vietnam.  Your family was in UK.  you read all these reports about numbers rising etc What was your biggest worry.
65.  My biggest.
66.  Your biggest worry.  Like you could give a.  concrete example, something that.
67.  yeah my biggest worry was.  My my dad or my dad's could be vulnerable person.  And he was to capture it and get seriously ill yeah like, firstly, getting back because there was limited flights.  and obviously you got like the long flights get back and then you probably have to.  do some sort of quarantine on arrival so it's just things like that, like if your parents get really ill.  And I don't have any grandparents so that wasn't a concern you know, like really elderly, but you don't know people in their 50s and 60s still are still dying from the virus last year so and.  yeah That was the biggest worry.
68.  yeah and so, and so you have your your father is is pretty vulnerable for medical reasons, I imagine,
69.  it just like Out of my major family he's the one I would worry about the most my mum's bit more less vulnerable.
70.  can imagine that also makes you favor a strict measures right to protect ourselves but they're also, of course, maybe also also on social media also at that point said, you know I mean this is all bs right.  And yeah sure to keep the economy going etc, etc, I mean, how did that make you feel.
71.  um.  yeah I mean all the stuff on social media angers me anyway and but, so I try not to retaliate too much to it and.
72.  Would you would you want to sometimes.
73.  Oh yeah I have yeah I have.  yeah yeah well because I work in an infectious disease myself like a working clinical trials for oxford in vitnam , so when you see people say oh it's just flu, you know.  it's not and then I get into arguments with people because site I don't know I just felt like all of a sudden, we had a nation of like epidemiologists and people that barely did science at school, but now they're suddenly experts and yeah so I had a few little Facebook rants people.  And yeah yeah and then obviously like all the vaccine stuff as well as another one.  I guess they've had their opinions.  You can't change it.
74.  yeah but it's also mean if if it is science is also.  science doesn't know everything right, so there is a.  There was always a little Gray area, especially with the new.  diseases like this.
75.  yeah there's always a Gray area, but in my opinion, I would always listen to the experts over some videos on Facebook.
76.  A few of the others have you had people in your immediate environment that were skeptical.
77.  I wouldn't maybe friends on Facebook but if I start having a go at people I don't think i'd stop so i've just stayed away from it.  it's got their opinion, they can be wrong if they want it.  And would  says people  ended up get covid it so it just goes to show.  yeah.
78.  i've seen a few like that.
79.  is ridiculous yeah.
80.  What is ridiculous.
81.  Just refusing to wear masks.
82.  And yeah and then the next week and they wondring why they got it
83.  always because you are not wearing a mask
84.  its because you're not taking care of yourself is because you're having parties in the back garden when is it six people  it's just stupid.
85.  good friend a really good friends.  I go I do outdoor swimming all through the year and I swim with her and she has very much token a stance that says some attempts at the government control that she's not vaccinated she's been  protest and.  We guys.  What.  i'm saying social care and health care with her agree to disagree, because I really like her.  she's very valuable friend, but I am worried sick about her.  i'm seeing.  That i've been brainwashed.
86.  As you have you been brainwashed.
87.  i've had to remind myself I really, you know why we're friends.
88.  post.
89.  Only worry about her and we're now coming towards the situation so say we're not we're not in England but in Wales, but you know there's talk about mandatory vaccinations and.  Health workers, she will walk away from her posts which she is very very good at  if she's told to be vaccinated.  If it's a really difficult sitiuation so we literally have to agree to not discusse it because we're both worried.
90.  yeah isn't actually a good idea to have you are you, bringing it up now mandatory vaccinations now you say hello small discussion with someone as well about that topic is that a good idea, should we say okay guys.  enough's enough.  If you haven't been vaccinated yet you just well either you get vaccinated or you get fired or whatever is that, a good idea.
91.  Now i'm not sure.
92.  The constraints .
93.  I don't think it's very ethical
94.  One will end up will end up with people on the street is causing riots. it's just and yeah.
95.  I think we currently have to do LFT.  twice a week and I thought test I think testing requirements if you're in a public facing post and.  I don’t think that such a problem, but I think starting to dictate and what medical treatment before how you cannot never done that, why would we do it now.
96.  yeah Okay, I guess i'm not sure because yeah.  yeah every vaccination there's no vaccination of these mandatory right so yeah I can.  but the lois says, you know we'll get riots in the street.  And you Lucy says you think it's.
97.  A lot less.
98.  Sorry.
99.  Rioted for a lot less.
100.  And then.
101.  It will just cause mayhem I think people and.  It wouldn't be good, I think.
102.  yeah I think it's I mean as much as I agree that we should get vaccinated.  I don't think we should take away people's free will, because they're afraid that they're being controlled, and that is going to be controlling them, so I think they should try to put more resources into educate educating people about the vaccine, because a lot of people are just.  scared that it came out too soon or.  Has side effects or whatever, so I think they should try to teach people about and say okay it's not easy we've known about the source viruses for X amount of years, try to show them why it's a good idea take it rather than force them to take it.
103.  Some people don't want to listen.
104.  no.
105.  there's always going to be those people who.  yeah take it, no matter what, but at least maybe some other people will be convinced if there's more information about it made publicly, well, it is made publicly, but people have to search for it, whereas we just had like a news.  story about why it's good like pros and.  It might be just.  So we can make an educated decision I guess.
106.  The thing is, I mean I have been vaccinated right.  And yet, if I get a covid now, I have to be as a quarantine myself, etc, etc, even if I am not very ill whatever I have stayed home and why do I have to stay at home.  Because still there is there are so many people not being vaccinated well, they could have been so because they didn't do it, I have to stay at home, and I mean.  Is that fair, I mean or would you say well let's let's not make it mandatory, but if they didn't just get it it's their problem.  Because otherwise I mean so.  We want to open up right, we want to go back to I don't know, maybe not soccer matches but festivals, or whatever.  I mean it's either you, you get everyone vaccinated but in it and you say, well, we can't accept everyone we can't make it mandatory so then it's just okay it's then it's their bad if it is a good deal.  But maybe we shouldn't restrict medical treatments.
107.  I think a good way to do it will be to lift restrictions for those who have been vaccinated or for those who have taken tests.  So if you don't get the vaccine, then you don't get to go into a club, where you go to a festival or whatever, but those of us who have.  should be allowed to do all these things because we're vaccinated or I think that's what they're trying to do in Romania now they're like incentive make.  kind of convincing people to vaccinate by being like okay if you're vaccinated, then you can do this, or if you're not then you have to take a test before being allowed to do this so.  yeah I think that can minimize the spread and also allow those of us who have been vaccinated to do more things that will bring this back to normal.
108.  But it also people who said that's unethical right,  if you are not vaccinated you can't show that you're vaccinated then you are  not allowed to enter club, I mean in, the Netherlands, people have made the comparison to.  what's the English word.  Holocaust is bit too much, but what goes before that persecution of Jewish people wear stars, etc, etc.  So people say that's unethical too.  I mean, how do you feel about that.  should you restrict access to clubs, for example, for people who decide not to be vaccinated.
109. so ya like a vaccine passports.   Because it's not as black and white, I know people who have had their vaccines and contracted covid.  And they've still been pretty ill.  yeah sorry like not hospital ill but, like you know.  viruslly  ill and still appears to have some element well it wont be longterm, which is not quite long enough, but showing elements of you know prolonged virus attack.  and  Actually I don't feel that vaccine passports and necessarily the right thing.  But also, I think the quarantine is still about reducing the spread you know your  vaccine can still be an aggressive attack cant it virus attack think if someone have it quarantine still my thinking. Life.
110.  yeah.
111.  Lois you mentioned earlier that back in well the first weeks, months so you've seen them near where you live the strain on the NHS.  People.  caretakers.
112.  yeah.
113.  overloaded right, I mean, how is it for you that if you if you take that into account, and then the idea, but there are still people are saying, there is no covid if it.  doesn't exist it's just a flu I don't want to be vaccinated, but I also don't want to be restrained, I mean.  how you feel about that.
114.  In the beginning it was one of those people oh it's just a bad case of the flu but quickly realized, as you see people dropping and you see how ill people get it's like this isn't just a flu, this is way bigger than we thought .  Nice.  it's.  very frustrating.  very frustrating.
115.  What is frustrating.
116.  Everything the way people aren't taking it's not everybody there is a few that don't take it seriously and I mean my best friend sister she works in a care home.  And in the beginning, she was coming home every other day, and they were just drop in but they weren't given the correct PPE in the beginning, and they weren't given the correct they weren't backs well.  vaccinations weren't out yet, but they weren't in the lineup for the vaccination.  And it's it's just precautions could have been taken as well.
117.  yeah Okay, we say.  If you would be.  that’s  a little bit, I mean the thing that people are so.  skeptical about stuff.  Why is that the case you think.  Because I mean I don't know i'm sorry.
118.  Trust maybe.
119.  yeah trust.
120.  yeah maybe in the government.
121.  Another man i'd say.  yeah.
122.  Can you elaborate a little bit.
123.  There were several all over the place, so.
124.  yeah like we said at the beginning, and they took too long to put some measures in place then we're waiting too long to see what other countries are doing and they just didn't.  There was they went from not discussing with this us with that not discussing it with us at all to doing something every Monday, it was the same thing and we still didn't know where we stood.
125.  It was kind of like they thought at the beginning.  That it wouldn't affect England, because.  they're you know they're like higher income countries and they've got the resources and the you know to whereas I can , it developed in countries like Asia and then.  You know, like China and Asia, obviously, wherever that way in course at first and stuff it was like they thought all those countries need to take these measures because they can't cope with it.  But you know we're fine we're America or England were fine and then they realized that they weren't fine too late, and by that point when you've got 10,000 cases a day or 20,000 days, two days is so much harder to control compared to 1000 cases a day.
126.  yeah yeah.  yeah.  I think boris johnson himself has been the same pretty long way it's just a flu right until he got it and then he.
127.   just stay completely underplayed it's like the thought it wasn't serious himself so then how can you convince your nation that.  is a serious virus, they need to believe it  yourself yeah but.
128.  Why do you think I mean.  Why do you think he was sincerely thinking, it was not very serious until he got it and any we sincerely enough feels it is serious or.  Has it been games.
129.   no I don't think he played games, I think he just didn't realize the extent of it and downplayed it.  Though that they were going to be fine everyone in Europe and England was going to be fine and not be affected by this virus that China and other places, were being affected by.  Either china's like you know a rich country as well.  yeah well that's my opinion anyway.
130.  That was my.
131.  Thinking to a certain extent.  it just Like.  Because the British or nothing.  For now, I think that's just a personal thing. and I think there is a bit of denial going on around here as well, because I think they were some people like 20,000 cases a day where all these people I don't know anybody who's.  An element of that going on at first as well.
132.  I mean yeah it's also a little bit arrogant right, I mean.  Which is maybe not the best trait to have.  When you are.  In any case, right, I mean.
133.  Oh yeah.
134.  I think a lot of people just weren't willing to give up their freedoms that they would try to either come up with the conspiracy theories, to be like this isn't real they're just trying to.  Do X and y so they wouldn't have to take it seriously and be like Oh, we have to quarantine because a lot of people were just too comfortable into happy with their lifestyle to get that out.  Especially people who thought that they weren't going to be that affected, but maybe younger people or people who don't really have.  You know, family members will sit here and insist that could have been more vulnerable, so I think that's how they came up with the.  paranoia trying to convince themselves they're not serious and it's just that the government is trying to control us that the government is trying to you know control population of whatever.  Because otherwise I don't really personally understand how you can come up with such extreme theories that Bill Gates created the virus in the vaccine .  They get.
135.  I don't really know.
136.  How it yeah.  So I think that's what it stems from just not wanting to give up their freedom.
137.  Okay, and.  Of course, now I mean I guess most regulations have been lifted at UK is actually it says we are you are all your free right no.  Also, social distancing is not the.  it's not the policy anymore, is it is he had this Liberation Day.  I don't know somewhere in June or July that or i'm mistaking I did, there were no regulations right.  and which one which.
138.  Sorry, I said, I have no idea anymore.
139.  I have no idea anymore.  we've been talking about what impact is your most and, for example, Lois you said, well, the fact that I have my toddler at home while needing to be productive and work as well, so what.  When the regulations were lifted the bans were lifted what which one were you most happy about that the Oh yes, finally, we.
140.  family and friends, I think.  How many friends yeah we've still not really we been out and about a bit, but we've not gone back to normal life at all.  When we say out cool I mean we had a wedding the other week, where we saw a lot of family, but everyone was very careful and.  same family was a big thing.
141.  yeah.
142.  yeah.  Definitely family, the biggest thing.  A lot of my.  family and friends live in England actually traveling and catching up with them without feeling like.  even though you all stand around in masks
143.  And Lucy which at the most happy about
144.  I wasn't here when it was Liberation Day i've only come back recently.
145.  Okay but you have been you wherever you were there were.
146.  Restrictions oh.  yeah there's been.  there's been a strict lockdown in Vietnam, the last three months, so when I came back it was so nice to be able to go out to the pub for dinner with my family and.  Do normal things that i'm i've been very lucky in that you know when everyone in the UK was in lockdown I was living a normal life in Vietnam it's .  There and travel internationally can leave the country, but so I kind of been very fortunate to out all of it it's just been in the last few months, which is partly why i've come home actually just because of the lock down there and then everyone's back to normal here fair enough.
147.  And so you just you're just you're just jumping you're just going where the restriction are.
148.  yeah cuz I haven't seen people for over two years now it's like every day.  Going on it's very nice to be out and about again.
149.  what's so difficult about not being able to meet your family or see your family so difficult about that.
150.  Just just.
151.  yeah.
152.  Lois Lois.
153.  Sorry.  I think if you're a close family going from seeing them every weekend or during the week.  To nothing or saying hi through a window was very disheartening can you just give him a cuddle.  For fear that you're going to give her something that she might give you something and yeah difficult.
154.  which could you have ever expected that you have because, like I don't know.  Would you ever imagine that you would have experienced this in your life.  Right.
155.  No never.  It seems too far fetched it feels like you're in a movie.
156. yeah.
157.  yeah it was just something you've watching the cinema, rather than real life.
158.  and who knew  that we would ever approach and who knew we would ever approach our friends and family saying  are we hugging?
159.  yeah.
160.  yeah I was always such a hugger I saw friends i'll give them a hug and a kiss and now you like Oh, are you arent you can I cant I .
161.  Hugging its a new thing
162.  And if you have to give a word to that situation which you, you can just go over and meet each other and if you see each other it's through glass window, I mean how.  How would you describe that having to go through that.
163.  I think the worst part is not knowing when it's going to go back to normal.  Like not knowing when you're.  going to be able to just see whoever you want whenever you want and have them about asking is it Okay, for you and that way.
164.  And, have you because this also you read reports people really getting tense it's yeah well depressed about this situation have you gone through such a thing you felt a mood change.
165.  It was for me, it was the opposite, but in my work, I support people's well being a stress management and.  i've gone through the roof, people are crashing and burning more now actually .  than initially.  and at home  We have a different situation lockdown actually unloaded.  Situation and allowed me to get home to sort out so for me personally actually my life improved.  hmm old books around me people were getting ready, and we were doing things like in a zoom the zoom nights out and things that you never thought you would do to  friends.
166.  Luckily its uh  we're past that and, hopefully, will will stay.  And will be just very.  it's 12 o'clock Central European time which is it means it's 11 o'clock here, where you are right, so we're I think we're nearing the end of the hour of discussion, we would ever actually the 45 minute discussion.  So I wants to see Joseph check with my colleague technical support yeah is it yeah right yes we're going to I think we're finished recording first right and then we're going to fill in a questionnaire and and make.
167. we do  little morning exercise and calibrating we do by looking into the camera jo in your phone of course also that little dot in the camera and move your head around a little bit like this while looking in the camera a very nice relaxing exercise thank you and now we just  look at every participant at a time let's  with the Callie  first i saw look at Callie  i would and good morning there you are and let's look at jo hi jo good morning how are you very nice and  lucy good morning lucy there is lucy and let's also not forget to make screen shots ladies and gentlemen this is also important and then we just dig in screenshot has ah yeah with your phone of course yeah that  and also at least was asked to switch to gallery view if you haven't maybe that's not for you jo but for the others at the top right corner you can set your view either speaker or gallery view please use gallery view that would be nice are we all a ok ohh okay let's continue then guys on this series in which we discuss covid and also  the theme of designing our future society well last time we actually looked back right and i really dug in that and reflected on how covid how covid hit in what the implications back then today i'd like to have a little brainstorm actually right last time we were had an session in which i asked questions and you answered turn by turn but today let's have a little brainstorm and also feel free ride if someone says something react jump in you don't need to wait for my question just to have a little brainstorming discussion and the theme of the day is  in the series is ok that may the positives may we can look a bit more at the positives at the covid brought right and so when i say this actually the positives of covid any this anything comes to mind yeah as compared to needing to leave the house at eight right stressing to bring the kids to kindergarten or whatever and nedeing to stay in the office until about six thirty a bit because otherwise you make a bad impression now he's ok there's there's there's it opened up for some more flexibilities and correctly understood
168. and
169. yeah i mean have you now you say people in crisis i mean that brute yeah how is it possible how can you do that online because i would also figure that he needs it needs to be there right i mean you only see so much online from someone you don't i mean i i the as far as i can concern maybe your house is a total mess right but i wouldn't see it because i always see this how how i don't understand how you can have yeah how does it help yeah that's amazing right i mean yeah yeah that really amazing  is as if if you would come over to their house maybe they'd see also yeah it'd make you a cup of tea may be it feels a bit more intimidated for example when there's some distance gives them the yeah the space free up something like that that's the image so yeah that is cool  just curious Lucy when i opposed the question and discussed about covid you were pretty quick to respond and the answer will demand the the flexibility right that you can work from home and that employers now realize that that's ok i mean i makes me wonder i mean how does that make a difference or how has i how has it made it has made nevermind for you how has made a difference right yeah so you can be both you can both do your job and be in england near to your family and loved ones and in the old situation that was would have never been a possibility they would never be open to that yeah yeah so that's also a new positive right that the whole yeah renewed valuation is appreciation of the fact that you know how lovely it is actually to be able to go to work is that what you're saying that thats pretty funny right that's like a universal thing right i mean in the netherlands people did it aswell yeah in the Netherlands are a lot of makes making fun of but yet toilet paper people started to herd or hoard or herd or nevermind were buying  by massive amounts of toilet paper i'm happy i can already sit in my computer i was stuffed with toilet paper but none of it stuck but that's so funny in the netherlands same thing in the uk in front of the toilet paper nah that,s right you're trying to keep it a little bit low and let's hope never no one ever discovered what we did no no  but we did exactly the same no problem what is neurodiverse for Wow really gives me the goosebumps i I don’t know I don’t know about you guys  maybe that i'm a father to theI , yeah if you have children then you know how much you how do you say that of course you always want them to to to to do well my oldest daughter is also well not in a same but also has some difficulties you sometimes you feel a bit how do you say  that's powerless you have no influence and you really have to hope for the best something like that right in in interactions at school etc and so listening to your story i mean i can imagine the the relief and the oh man i really think it's amazing and so i'm very happy for you it's a yeah wow that's so cool and would you have ever expected that i mean of course in the old situation you couldn't do that right you you can't shut down social stuff or not to the extent that we had to because of covid who would you have a imagined could you have imagined that this would be that would be  would have such a positive effect on your child no man yeah what what what are you then you say that there is oh she had different stories from other people how how they or maybe their children benefited from that like a shutdown of social what does that say about the social pressures or social a if if and also thinking about her because that's what the series is about affects word ahhh it's to get the best out of this for the future i mean what what what can we learn from that any any thoughts from all of you guys
170. well
171. not yeah that's funny right i mean and then the old situations i dont know you were expected maybe to turn up at your work neatly dressed , ties and whatever and all these blah blah blah but now working from everywhere can really flexible and if things fall over in the background or you're actually running through or whatever and everyone was very lenience that right that's yeah that's a funny thing yeah you recognize it also  lucy or so so so if you look at the positive side so employers became more flexible there's there's more trust that we we we came to understand it okay if the employees are not like in the office they can stay will still be productive and still be take the responsibilities with talks about well the amazing fact that the shutdown of social life had on for example your child being more tolerance towards each other in terms of decorum etc but also something i wonder how you feel about that i mean look looking at yourselves right i mean i dont know about you guys but when covid hits and we all went and looked down and we had to go online ets  et cetera i was thinking i am going to be in the training business also and my whole schedule was cleared people are talking about okay what you do normally face to face , now you have to do online i was  that is impossible right that was my first thought you probably have thought likewise but hey look at us here we are right we managed to adapt and maybe do things in a way that we never thought possible which is pretty cool right but i dunno how how about you is she looking at your own personal yeah nice nice nice yeah and in terms of being this i you i'm not buddhist i'm just thinking it's not about that also i mean if you look at the the change we were we have  made right under pressure but still we did it and now we're here i mean we can also give each other over or give ourselves a pat on the back or on the shoulder like hey good job right we we in a way that's at least how i feel new about me it gave me a lot more confidence because i have a i have an experience and well maybe a bit pathetic but no matter what life throws at you we will always manage or find a way out right i mean i've been worried so much in the past about how has to deal with stuff like this blah blah blah blah blah compared to the implications of covid that was all very small right then covid  hits and i was thinking oh no i'm gonna have to get out of this or how i'm going to get i'm going how am i going to get out of this but hey i did right i mean do you have a similar experience hm yeah lucy what are you thinking about you muted you muted I think to and what what are you take away from that actually i mean that was because you were actually what I am saying you were actually alone in that that is not even from the balcony of the house or as i while yea yada yes some perspective is important right can make a huge difference but still i mean the amazing nineteen days on your own and it's also yeah yeah well thank you for sharing that that is incredible yeah yeah you sure you look at that totally different way through tom hanks castaway right and also mean if you if you think that i mean in terms of of of of of of of seeing the perspective i mean living here in the netherlands western europe i mean  we all have our problems and difficulties et cetera et cetera and you watch the news and use some  times see people at an all syria's civil war which is of course but you know people have to deal with that feeling the need to flee their home or whatever but normally speaking it is just it's far away and i can rationally understand that is bad but yeah ok that is or you switch off the news and you go on minding your own business i'm not saying we  it was not nearly as bad as that of course but it gave me also little sense just a little sense of what these people must go through then when something that big comes and you can't influence it and you yeah you really need to make the best but you're severely restricted  it made it again it's not as bad as people in syria experienced i i guess but it gives you a little sense also a little lesson in well not as if humility humble humbleness maybe that's better right to say well that's and also if you talk about empathy right and and and and and learning to be more empathic towards that then and now we we got a small taste of that makes me also a little bit more understanding towards how awful it is if you are in those kinds of situations and the wall may be to the a little bit more while understanding and empathic towards that as well i i'm not sure how you whether you experienced the same thing nice nice thank you sharing it I am also  looking a bit at the clock who are worrying about lucy needing to catch a train to me yet so i was five minutes left before you need to leave right lucy and also with a small ring to my technicals support colleague because he also needs filling i think questionnaires after the session so maybe it's a good idea to stop the session and start going through the questionnaire because otherwise lucy will get into trouble
172. yeah i can't do the screenshot i yeah cant do the screenshot  i'm afraid yeah massively gray i think can it's also enables employees to prove to employers that they are reliable adult so you don't actually have to be in your  building of employment to produce the same quality or quantity of work and and obviously that isn't relly you know some people do jobs where they have to be on site but i think previous employers were forced to trust their employees to be working from home and i thought think that been quite a seismic shift and and rarely positive positive for the environment too because so i have quiet commutes it's been good for me from a fuel cost but it's also been good for the environment because i haven't been doing a seventy mile round trip to get to my bank then home and then travel from that so i cover quite a wide area in my work and the the miles i've saved i cant even well i've probably saved about six thousand miles if not more last year and that good for me is good for the company cause i'm not asking for expenses but environmentally it's amazing isn't it but even then i think so i do a quite a front facing job i deal with i support people in crisis but it's really taught me how to prioritize and actually i i've really learned to connect much better with and citizens we call them I hate it  people who do it by phone by zoom and then learn how to judge who still actually needs face to face support but it is far less than i thought it was i never thought i could do my job remotely i think because actually i sometimes for me and my can't tell if you like when they're in crisis they just need someone to listen so i as long as i am listening and you know have the same hopefully warm tone  i would have normally and still pick up on the right cues i think they and a I think, i think they still feel supported and then we can have a discussion about do you need me to be that and actually this is a strange positive but i've discovered that some of the people have been referred to me about she opend up more because we've had some distance between us so it's almost like it's almost like a road rage type singer i'm like there i'm not in the room with them so it almost frees them up to say things they might not have said if i was there in there house and they felt they had to you know pull themselves together a bit or make me a cup of tea or tidy up it's like i get a more raw them some times i help them . yeah i think so but it's just there it i just have had to learn to listen even more carefully perhaps for the cues that tell me that this person needs a face to face doesn't work for everybody but yeah i definitely think there i've had some referrals in house professional social workers referred to me where i found somebody up to make the initial contact and they've told me their whole life story and an unexpectedly you know when normally i would expect develop that relationship get to the core of it are even though the i know yeah he made it at it's realy made us to reevaluate what's important in general hasn't it that you know that certainly in the uk we've understood how privileged we are to have the freedom of travel to be able to instantly access to anything you know within financial reach that we want and you know suddenly people were questioning that and it may just realise what a free accessible life we have normally when all of a sudden stops and you know all that crazy panic or people buying toilet rolls and nothing says i'm sort of glad that that's not just uk think that would be extremely dang yeah just i'm i'm i'm cutting costs but another thing that i think is really important i have a huge positive for us was that and this is really quite personal but i'll try and keep the most personal details out of it but my child is neuro diverse and hadn't been to school He' autistic part of that whole range and really has got all the way to regular school but his teenage had a health crisis mental health crisis and was realy struggling about a year and i we got lots of support at luckily i have a really supportive employer so i was already having to do a bit of working from home school hoe schooling but it was very difficult locked down completely removed any social pressure for my child put him on a level playing field with all of the other children in his year he regains good mental health and caught up with the schooling that he'd lost and that was because all pressures were removed from him and i had more free time at home even though working and homeschooling are a nightmare so either one went really well or the other but never both and but absolutely press the reset button for us so i feel blessed and a little bit embarrassed when i listen to all these people i support in crisis that covid  turned our lives around for the better and he's now attending college and eighteen months ago nobody would have ever thought he would leave the house alone attend college  and eat while he was there so covid actually for us selfishly has been amazing thing yeah absolutely yeah and when children were allowed start returning to school my child returned to school unbelievable i didn't mean to silence you all i this but it's really important and i've spoken to other people who also have felt they had to rarely positive experiences because social expectations were removed for that period of time no not at all when you know when we heard that we were going into lockdown and there was all this change happening because he is autistic and change has to happen in a drip feed fashion he doesn't like to change i thought it would absolutely shut him down but as i say realy is kind of shut down already and what it did was made him relax and then he start to recover like yeah i think one side and i think resilience  is a word you hear about a lot now isn't it and i think it for in our house i think we rarely took time to think about what do we like you know what makes us think about something other than school or work and and actually having time at home so it was a really big deal how to say right it's eleven o'clock with stopping a cup of tea and going out into the garden you know and chatting to the neighbors in that garden which probably wasn't allowed at one point you know just and staying right when school or work and it is we're going to go out for our daily walk and i downloaded a bird app and we would listen to you and we would hear bird song and instead of just hearing it and saying oh that's nice actually learning what bird it was and you know it was a time where you actually properly thought about what makes you happy wasn't it isn't it was still solve in it realy so it's difficult when you feel like that isn't it  to have that vision in the time like you've always see reflected on it and though actually i got through it it made me know that i am strong and resilient but at a time when you were in a relatively a comfortable position living position you know its very difficult you know it could be worse could be retraining my animal in the high rise block you feel how you feel then yah prepare yeah and great that you got home yeah yeah i think in our houses i think were generally quite emphatic but it made us both go the extra step so  we are really grateful for our home and our friends and family and our health and i you know all of that now and i must have been amazing at local charity that does a lot of work and for refugees for refugees who have been rehomed but also getting a relevant and suitable equipment out to camps greece lebanon wherever and actually my son and i have now volunteered three hours of oux week to support that charity to help and re  im not explaining  my self very well am I. so we're starting to say people who fled afghanistan and in our area the charity currently is helping people acclimatize to a totally new culture learn to practice their english to just connect so we have volunteered three hours of our time a week to help with that process and then as i say my sons can be socially awkward so he's going to help with and sorting donations that they achieve that they get handing out flyers you know whatever else needs doing lifting and shifting and we've made that conscious decision i think to give some time because we've recognized how lucky we are and you know there's something good about that as well it's not it's not completely altruistic there's something good about volunteering your time and recognizing that you have at safety and stability as it is an asset that you can work from i think
173. and i think that it allowed everybody to see if he can work from home effectively and just mean i think is good i think i think people should have that option really  todo especially if you got families and just being able to sort of work where being away and things  that shows showed the whole world that it's possible to work remotely relieved yeah i mean i've been working from home since may again this year in vietnam but now i'm back in england and i'm still working for them yet i'm hopeful so i'd have to so i'm still managing to to do my old job my job from when i was in vietnam to be in england still i would have had to quit my job and also so vietnam is a kind of thought when i was working there it was like kind of a different culture to the uk because they they'll have like an hour long lunch and they'll take their lunch to work with all this food and they like this big table and nina spend a whole hour and so they'll go to work earlier and work later whereas i will go for my hours and just have like twenty twenty five minute lunch to leave as soon as i can but i'd rather be at work along the day have this really sociable lunch and so i can imagine like you know to have to be worked from home for the last six months or five months would be really hard and so whenever we have like a new  meetings everyone is just like can't wait to go back to work and see everyone again whereas when you're working you're like oh go to this work and now everyone wants to go back to work appreciate your work and you like your workmates more yeah especially because you know the culture that is just so big groups sociable everyone  shares their food it's like every single day it's big lunch party kind of thing a yeah i've definitely done that I did it i've done a  every day for the last five months and i shareall the fun with  jonathan's later than all of you and it's kind of vietnam is going through it now and so it was around about middle of august then they just announced another month added on to it and at this point i was like i was living in my boss' villa she's back from belgium for the summer with her family so initially when i moved in there in june it was amazing because it's got this pool and everything and it was all pretty i like about this lovely villa with a private pool and fantastic but then two months later were in an even worse lock-down its very lonely and so then they announced this extra month long lockdown at this point its like just you mental health have to really suffer the show and that's when i was like okay so i need to get out to england and and then it was and i look to book the flights and everything and then then it was two and a half weeks before my flight they announced the two week twenty four seven no one is allowed to leave the house so everyone went panic  for that weekend cause it was posted on monday and then for two weeks you were not allowed to leave but like people were getting fined for walking the dogs and stuff it was so strict so you couldn't even go out for daily walks couldn't go to see  market the military were trying to deliver rice and other bits of foods to people it was very difficult to get delivery so i was basically living off like frozen food chicken nuggets and things the other pool at the time i was like am never get two days is still nineteen days till i fly home and you know i was just like in tatters i'm not going to get through this but i did a mean for i knew it it was like ten days to to fly home and then it was five days it was two days and i now looking back on my i actually survive that so well well considering how i felt when it was just before that two week like strict lockdown and they're still in it now because they keep  extending it but you really you are surprised at how resilient you are when you need to be take away the i actually can be by myself if i need to like that was in over fourteen days i didn't see a soul and i just i got into exercising in which the first lockdown last year i just didn't whereas this time round I have and that's been really good for me and i really like i really enjoyed doing home workouts and stuff may used the pool and swimming and i've made use of the pool i've been swimming i've been you know working online and stuff so you just you just get used to it and you just do it even though at the time the beginning you think i'm never going to get through this no the time just going to drag yeah like completely there was nobody I can  see anybody for about seventeen days or something ah oh  nobody i mean so at the villas in a compound I walked a dog every day just once a day rounds so occasionally you'll see like in a neighbor's arounds but nobody i spoke to anything i am but i was in the lucky position because a lot of people live in apartments so they weren't you know in like you know at the beginning like high rise type apartments the security would not let them leave their apartment and people were having to train the animals to go to toilet inside and stuff is just it's have been very hard very strict compared to the UK even it's just a completely different kind of culture you know and so i was kind of the lucky ones but i didn't really feel it because i was alone cause I have been  by myself yea i remember just like in the breakdown to be like oh i'll do this i can do ninety days a year not even be able to just drive to the super markets and pickup the a loaf of bread or some more eggs and i was trying to like go on the delivery outs but said nothing mm yes and just had to make do with like the you had in the house but i remember thinking the can't do this nineteen days like like crying to my friend because shes leaving and then and i did and i are actually looking back now it was like no where near as bas as i thought was going to be but i think it was because i knew that I was coming to england its like a lot like light at the end of the tunnel hemp yea when I stepped into the airport it was just like a huge relief weight off the shoulders seeing people for starters yea  the luxury but al by myself
174. yeah yeah i i also agree i think that as soon as we can be more flexible and maybe even in countries where to use this might like in romania we would almost never use technology at school and now they didn't have a choice but to kind of push us to learn to use zoom and stuff especially older teachers who maybe didn't really know how to navigate this world of online lectures and lessons it i guess pushed all of us to try to understand technology words to evolve that way to be more flexible and to where now kind of more prepared for crisis situations like this where we might have to work from home and i guess in a lot of ways a lot of people might even continue working remotely after will be still a lot will be like fully allowed to go back to the way things were because like jo said you know you have a long commute therefore it just better for you and for the  environment and for the company that saves them expenses if you just worked remotely so i think that probably be the case for a lot of other people as well especially if they have pets or young children or people that to take care of it's just easier and we can still do the same work quality and quantity even from home for some jobs with exceptions but yah i wanted to say that for me personally that has also been a positive because even though at the beginning of the pandemic traveling was kind of hard once some travel bans were lifted i managed to go back to romania and spend more time with my family than i would have if a university would have still been in person i wouldn't have seen them as much they did last year so it has been a positive for me the fact that i could see them more and i could see them  now days for you after you to be in the uk with your family and not all the way in vietnam so far away from them i feel like even though it has also covid but has also kind of separated us it also brought us kind of two closer together at least with the people that we live in because we have been coordinating with them we've kind of like develop more the deeper connections with our family are going to get better or whatever at least that's what that's the case for me  sorry you've had a really really positive outcome and i was just thinking that there's no way you would have  a similar situations where you wouldn't have to go to school in person not just him but everyone if it wasn't for like a global crisis like this well i think there's other pressure for us to make good impressions on people in person and to be likable and i dont know not to do something embarrassing or off words in front of the whole class or whatever where you're at school and i think that we've become more understanding of that some people thrive in social environments and some people don't really know how to handle social pressure so i think we've kind of learned to accept the difference between the two because i feel like more introverted people benefit from not having to see people face-to-face and then extroverts kind of like my crazy too crazy to stay indoors for a while so i think i i have at least learned to appreciate the other side to understand that i'm a more social person but i do understand that other people don't feel that way don't like being in social situations for long periods of time and i think that we've all kind of started to understand each other more because of this  especially since now we're all more comfortable at home at the beginning of the lockdown there were so many videos of people working from home and like not wearing down and certain tie i think we kind of learned that we could just laugh at each other more and not not in a mean way but everybody makes mistakes everybody embarrasses themselves it's not that big of a deal i like to  just because we some people are mean about it i could do something embarrassing now not i'm wearing a nice sweater but i'm wearing pants and don't even get up now it's gonna be embarrassing but i don't think any of you will care because you've probably done this at some point working fully dressed up so i wouldn't feel embarrassed i would laugh at it you probably would see it but not like mean way like oh look at her in a kind of like oh yeah this is happening now it's it's the new normal so i think we've it's a good thing that we've kind of learned to understand each other more from that point of view and not maybe at least for me try not to put pressure on people who dont like so don't like i guess meet social expectations in a way it's really not that big of a deal i think personally it also made me more considerate of other people's needs because at the beginning of the pandemic i thought oh this i'm young this does not affect me based they're saying it's affecting older people or people with pre existing conditions then it's fine i can do whatever it wants but that doesn't matter because if if i'm going to be fine i could still affect someone to get the viruses will not be fine if they get it so i think it's it also made sorry  something in the window but i dont know if you can hear that i think overall it made us think about what's how other people are being affected and try to like shelter other people even though i might i might not be fighting the way like viruses affect me in ways that i wouldn't expect it to but it still made me consider it maybe stop doing things not because second for me but because it might not be good for others so i guess that also kind of brings us closer together because we've become more empathetic and understanding of other people's personal situations yeah
175. this is well great recording then is in progress just a small reminder this session will be accessible to more people than just researchers once it's open source right just have that in mind as you don't need to share any private information if you dont want to if you if you don't mind no problem but just know that this is going to be accessible too everyone in the research departments yes less calibrate first let's look in the camera and move your head up and down right left very nice the morning exercise relaxing the muscles  while calibrating thank you very much and then let's look at everyone one at a time while Callie you're in my upper right corner so we go hi Callie good morning let's go to lucy hi lucy and last but at least hi jo alright guys today third discussion first one we focused a lot on okay how did we experience when covid hits second one was brought all the good things that all the good things at the positives that came from covid and now this day i want to look a little bit more more into the future the theme of this discussion series is how to design our future society let's maybe when covid hit many people are saying okay maybe this can be some something something of a reset right i mean we're forced to stay put to be in lockdown to to reflects from what we've been doing so far maybe we can take to the opportunity to  change some stuff so i'm just wondering what would that be if it was up to you what do you see happening but would you like to see happening and let's have a little bit of brainstorming and exchange about that and you don't have to wait until i ask you a question feel free to jump in or add to well whatever someone else is saying and well i am curious realy fine well painting a picture or a covid maybe been some something of a reset is it lucy for example do you think this is something that is a change in pivotal moments in society the history yeah that has to remain  you you say why why is that why why so important to you yeah as as as you yesterday we also talked a little bit by this with different group and i remember from the days when i was in a  let's say a normal job and i had to go into the office every day you were there always the same time always leaving at the same time around the same time at least i wouldn't know i would never leave early even though my work was finished or something i would just stay so i dunno until it was okay to leave sort of it was felt a bit like you are i mean i must exaggerate so maybe i'm exaggerating but it's it's like really like you're in the i dunno a chain gang or i dunno whatever you know I mean it can be like a lemming everyday you go to the office you go back then always it is the same times always made mefeel a little bit miserable and in that sense i like that flexibility a lot of right is that it the same reason  with you a little bit is this the is it the same for you Callie i mean you you're not you're not in a real job yet right you're still studying is the you have the same experience yeah because that's what i though i've been reading a lot lately especially if you're starting your career or you're new in your job you mean you really benefit from people around you you can really quickly ask a question too i dont know  if you are  then alone in your room not connected physically it's very hard right to getting through the job  since i can imagine there's some need for socializing yes because when covid struck you know people had to switch work at home a lot less traffic jams a lot less pollution right but now I am not sure how unless your house in uk but in the netherlands i made last friday afternoon i was stuck in traffic jam right i mean it seems to be like in the beginning everyone said yeah yeah we will never go we will stay work at home and traffic will be less and there's great for the environment but it seems like we're just going back to the old normal in that sense and that all gains are lost right i dunno how how how's that for you i mean do you see that happening as well as a and what we didn't we say that we would never do this again and now we're doing it again ok ok yes yes  the buzz i'm not sure where that comes from but lets just try to continue  if you just on a on a bit of a broader level right to enough not strictly covid related but in general i mean if you think of the covid as a period of time where we were forced to stay at home where we had some more time to reflect i mean all kinds of ideas about how society should be i came to mind and if i   give you a magic wand and you can  shape society as you would like it to be and and and and and look at covid as this at the moment we can do this this reset where what would you wish for why what would you like to be fixed to get fixed in society what is your what is your dream what does that what does that bring why does that make you happy and do you see how this because i imagine them previously before covid the people were not as connected maybe a bit more isolated i can imagine that this brings a lot of the positive energy but it is also ahh except for those who are involved is that doesn't have more impact than that alone what problem could that solve if people are more connected and more community yeah seems to need to  listening to you I can imagine it seems like everyone's only interested in protecting their own interests and not giving away anything to someone else do the work polarization comes to mind i'm not sure how that is in there where you live but that's something that you see a lot of people each in their own trench hat his firing away at one another but not not not prepare to move a single inch towards one another and that's yeah i sometimes it seems like that's only increasing increasing right is that something that also resonates with you pretty ironic right at the end its twenty twenty one we have more means than ever to communicate to one another but for some reason seems we are more polarized than ever as well i'm not sure whether that's a proper english word right why how do you feel about that lucy we are we are not very polarized at this group that's that's a good thing hi five guys yeah no and that says i mean if you so choose your within society i think you see a lot of  available the whole vaccine discussion for example but also i mean there's also a lot of debate in the netherlands about you know people were left wing striking at people who are right wing and vice versa there's like the silent majority in the middle but it seems like everyone is and is head to head against each other and also the person internationally speaking right i mean i think in the nineties everyone thought okay yeah the cold war is over and no stress but then it seems like international tensions are also at the rise right so that's worry you is that something that keeps you busy occupied  what's your wish is lucy if you would have this magic wands or something yeah you could do what would you like to see fixed but
176. I dont
177. yahh nothing on the societal level do you see any mmm like i said before i you know ok okay this is like some kind of a reset we are we need to shut down every forced to to to reflect this will be a time for change we can start to do some stuff differently you see that actually happening apart from the practical things have more flexibility working at home on a more on a on a higher level or do you think now we're just going back to well to the old way of working in society  and is that okay do you feel no no no understand but it's not like i mean for example yesterday we all talked about our environmental problems mmm  even i dont know geo politics  came alright and the fact that we should actually maybe stick together a bit more to solve for example environmental problems also internationally and so far we haven't been doing that much but maybe if that that would really help if we would if some people feel strongly and we should and maybe also the way politics at this point at the moment are being and how would you say driven i am not sure any but the way policy i mean i dunno about it in the uk but in the Netherlands there is also increasing polarization also there right in parliament people yelling from the trenches and no one is inclined to say okay as the other party has a point and maybe we should as good a okay if if i'm reflecting on it i think actually yahh you are right right i mean you never hear it's always only people from their own trenches trying to tell the people who were voted on them that the other ones are bad they they are morons that they just don't understand how it works makes me feel sick  and tired about that stuff right i mean i would love to see that change for example right because i don't think that that attitude is very constructive gets us nowhere and before you know it we'll be will waste another twenty thirty years and while i dunno that africa as a no one can live there anymore italy and spain that people cannot live there anymore because we just were busy fighting each other and quarreling instead of just solving problems that's something i really would like to see changed i can imagine stuff like that keeps you busy as well or doesn't it am i
178. too
179. hmm feels a bit i dunno cynical for  ending on a low here people i arrive at that is there any hope yeah i guess i agree with that thats be i mean of course you can look at big topics and and and  assume that but you can also like this kind of bottom up  change right i think  and well being more do you recognize that also lucy more that there's more room for to at least i'd like to the discussion on  wellbeing in the workplace mmm there is a few i dunno whether you were do you know the difference between the anglo saxon model and the rhineland model something back way of doing business said something are you aware of that mean it's of course i studied business so that's where you were learning that stuff but anglo saxon very polarized very extreme is actually all for profits the only interest that counts that have stockholder and the rest not important whereas rhineland which is much more in the netherlands germany's it's not only about money but also  about employee wellbeing so  social security etc etc now of course now i'm really seeing the extremes but in my mind and also what i hear from people who have friend that working for companies i mean as a friend of mine that worked for a company was taken over by a british company and he said man i'm not a you know i'm pretty commercial right i know i'm i'm and don't shy away from earning some money but these guys it's really all about profit right and any just yeah why he left because he didn't feel very happy about it and i think if you look at the what's happening in the world out all the problems and the issues we face right societal but also environmental in business i mean the mentality of only looking at profit and stockholder value and not taking into account every other stakeholder is actually that's that's a that's not really the way to go i think i feel and in that sense i think it's great news jo where you are indicating that the same there's much more room now that there's seems to be much more awareness that it's not only about productivity but also by that it's broader than that i think that is pretty good news right i mean that's that seems to be hopefully something i will say like a trend  i mean and if that can start small but you know if if if that that would be pretty nice  do you think or is where that well you know if it's not only about profit and also bad i mean and then you have a society where only those who are fit can join in but people who for some reason cannot they'd just drop out right in us thats not very nice how about i mean if you look at and and and discussion could be also yesterday we were talking about i dunno a gender equality for example is it something that you see or would like to see changing or developing i mean i'm pretty fine the way it is or maybe you joking it's something you see it changing or something you would like to see developing especially is that a personal importance to you that that that that that that we improve on them mmm  you know me i'm a heterosexual white male physically fit living in north west europe so i always i'm i'm perfectly fine but how's that for you I mean Callie you just answer that lucy okay that's that's good thing right i mean happy to hear that jo i am looking at the clock also so i think we're already nearing the end of this session i did you catch the train by the way last time lucy  right good mmm imagine we would have a time machine or you can right and you can maybe not have the time machine but imagine that it's like i dunno we're thirty years ahead of where we are now what then would you like to be able to say like okay in my lifetime have seen this change for the better right they said because say you you i dunno maybe have your children grandchildren you're talking to them you said where may or your nephews and nieces or whatever is well guys this is what i have seen changing in my lifetime i'm very happy that that has changed is not that it was like it used to be what would that be then the the black lives matters discussion for example would be something of the past if you were you say that you know the most problems we have as it's other people i dunno how you put but the specific example coming to mind yeah we will be great if we can say well yeah do do you remember that we all all this is this discussion about global warming and now that's a thing of the past that would be cool right yah and lucy yah been nicer to each other bit more said as being able to look from the other's perspective cooperate a bit more or maybe UK reentering the european union that would be  international cooperation very important so these issues were talking okay guys anything left to share something to you would like to get off your mind well maybe about the last session prehaps how experiences something like to get off your chest freak freaky coincidence nice thank you yeah i suppose also you know what I mean random group put together in this i don’t know from where we are different backgrounds etc but i also felt it was very nice yahh this experience that even though we live i dunno how many miles apart but there are some similarities and that's pretty cool right yeah yeah lucy callie anything to add? well likewise well eh we'll meet once more but then one on one a very nice thank you very much and i will see you soon and
180. oh yeah I don't think anyone will ever forget this It will always be something you tell people of in the future and everythinx and i think it has changed things i even just in terms of travel these new requirement you need and i don't see them going away soon if ever like you're always  to have proof of vaccinations and things like covid won't go away it will just be something that we live with yeah i agree yeah it's hard for me because I was not  any of the time really in the uk for the last eighteen months so i can only see it from where I was living in vietnam and yeah like jo said the it would be nice to just keep this the flexible working you know people have the options to go back to work it now but  still not really doing it when i met some friends last week in oxford and again they are being told they can go back into the offices they want but they're pretty  settled and happy and working from home works for them so that would be nice to just keep that going forwards that will be one of the biggest things for me cause i i do enjoy flexible working remote working mmm yeah i agree that it's like it's made people more aware of others like at starts from what i was reading in the uk especially in terms of like so when i was living in oxford and like the uni students at the book students of having these parties and then they were causing rising cases so it was like people were being kind of selfish and like i am missing out on my uni experince and other than that over time it's kind of people are now more cautious of it and maybe we'll consider it off like older and vulnerable people to the virus than like at the very start i dunno i feel like we would just go back really in a with a few changes but i can't see any big reset with big change happening i think people are just so such be about here it feels very normal it doesn't feel like anything's different i mean that's kind of my opinion but yah its nice I find it very nice after being in lockdown for so long but i have lived here for the whole time so are the people i feel very differently to how i feel yeah i need to say and like well in vietnam there were more cautious of people's mental health and  always sending like emails to the units and  look after the family's health comes first we understand your no so productive at home and that's fine then actually like at the end of  last year gave us extra days off for my wellbeing that's the kind of words that we got a couple extra days off and then we could take you out to spend some  time with family and things yeah the definitely yeah i agree just consider i like to think it was a more important factor the people had to take care of themselves through out the pandemic and lockdown and since like Callie I haven't really experince any social discrimination in the my life yet hmm i mean am aware of  discrimination that people can encounter in work places and also in personal life and that is not really  not being subject too i agree with callie and they people will be nice to each other definitely that's a big thing like you said it's some it really affects like when people can just be a bit  mean and effects  your self esteem and how like you can evolve as a person and the environmental thing so what is it that it is not something that  i like really follow massively and maybe that's a bad thing but and i definitely agree with you terms of it will be good if people do car share and stuff to work but whenever i have been working it's kind of like you just want the easiest option don't you like to gets to work you want to get home from work so maybe it's like the most selfish of me i'm kind of a lean towards that then when i lived in oxford i had to get buses and everything because just can i can never park at work so it was nice to meet you
181. i also think that we've become more aware of when we're sick and of like spreading germs cause personally i don't remember the last time i had a cold let alone anything else like it's been i can't even think of the last time i had a sneezing or coughing whatever because everybody's just masks all the time we're staying indoors if they have any symptoms and i feel like this will probably still be the case even after covid when they become more self aware that okay we can spread germs and yeah cool this is no big deal but still doesn't mean you should spread it around like wearing masks when we're sick might become more of the norm or even just staying home when we're sick and not going to work not wanting to squall as some people used to because now we also have the flexibility to get things from home so it wouldn't be a big deal if you just take a day to work from home if you're sick or something i think that's a good thing that we might take away from the pandemic yeah yeah well and currently doing a placement so i it is a job basically but i do with my job currently we have the flexibility to go to the office if you want to or to work from home and even though we are allowed to go back to normal to certain extents a lot of people just used to still stay at home because they've gotten used to having that flexibility not having to commute being with their families being with their pets not having you know have to go to work in person but i do prefer going to the office especially when there's other people because it's just it's a it makes it a social thing as well it's not just about getting the work done it also enables me to communicate with other people i've moved to a new city so obviously i want to get to know  people but it's kind of hard when they prefer to just stay at home because obviously if you've been here for a long time and you have friends you how you live with your family you don't feel the need to socialize at work as much but i think in a regular setting if i'm not you know just starting a new job i have been at the job for a longer time i would definitely appreciate the flexibility staying at home maybe not all the time maybe sometimes there's something that i have to do right before or right after work so prefer to just stay at home but i would like the mixed version i guess having some days where you might feel like you want to go to the office and some days where you really don't yeah i feel like going off of what jo said if i could change anything i think i would make us more considerate like as people and disfair in general because a lot of the people that i know were really fond of covid restriction  we're basically saying that oh why should i do this it's not going to affect me or i don't want to do this this has nothing to do with me so i think we should be more considerate and look at how our actions affect other people not just ourselves and not even with covid a lot of times people don't want to do things because they don't want to do things because its don’t have have a direct effect  on their life for their families or whatever anything surrounding them so i feel like we should try to think of things from sorry from other people's perspective more as well to take into consideration what their needs are or what would effect them negatively if i could just make a slight change that isn't really going to modify the way i live my life but it's going to make a huge difference for somebody else then it shouldn't be that big a deal yeah although it would be nice if the pandemic with just  to one to help the environment more to understand each other more i really don't see how anything is going to change i think people are just stuck in their ways and especially in the government they potentially like the power so agreeing that somebody else kind of takes that power away from you or at least act like that's what they think that if they let go of their own and politics in their own like ideas that they they are less powerful in the government's i don't really think that that's going to  change i don't really think people are becoming more aware of the environment even though i stay at home really really helped it and we could see actual positive differences people are just way too eager to go back to the way everything was i think we've stopped caring about it anything else other than just going back to normal at this point like equality in general is becoming more of a subject that's being talked about i don't see it changing as it was in the pandemic but i do see it just changing in general i think it's we're we're becoming more accepting of people that are different from the norm so that equality in general and then gender equality i do think that we've been working towards that for awhile and i don't think that's going to stop i think i dunno if we're ever going to reach like a perfectly equal society but i think we're becoming more and more aware that there are huge differences between how men and women are created or between how or where to you based on our sexual orientation or gender identity etc or ethnicity and i think we're trying to work towards eliminating discrimination but it's still a work in progress and especially depending on the area where you live or country where you live well i don't think i personally really been discriminated against in my life so i dunno if it's something that it might affect me in the future but no inequalities between men and women but it they it has so far so i think i've seen other people around me suffer because of inequality and i really tried to make it better for them but it's not something i can do on my own so like maybe i have i have friends that don't identify as straight and they have to suffer because of that and i can't really relate to it because i'd never have to suffer because of my sexual orientation but it's still disheartening to see that that's why we have to treat someone differently like it's to me it's not a big deal but others god how he can not   say you have too discriminate against against him or whatever so i would like to see change to make it better for the people around me and to make it so that hopefully i won't have to experience it but it's not like something deep personal oh i have to change it because it's very affecting me right now equality i think for me this people treating each other better in general yeah just ideally that we would be kinder to each other and that we would be more understanding because i feel like a lot of the hardships that we have in our lives come from other people making our lives hard so if it could just be nicer to each other a lot of the problems that we have might be more easily resolved so i think that i would be proud to say that we've become a nicer society but we'll see i dunno i think of maybe the education system in in certain places and some or workplaces for example maybe in the public sector you meet someone who you ask someone for help they're kind of bitter because they have a mean boss because the boss response to someone who hasn't had a good day and stuff that kind of like affects the whole chain of command in a way everybody's like in a bad mood because their superiors in a bad mood so i dunno who would just like nicer to each other we would have been a better mood we would be more happy to help other people like just things like that in general all yeah i agree with what jo said
182. I thought that flexibility like working from home and studying at home  and i and i think that possibility of both forward and you know we talk about the last time about the positive that the environment people having more time to kind of appreciate appreciate their family and notice of their environment I think we can do that with  that the world can still function so i think from my perspective it should may it a lot more work a lot more accessible to people you know obviously there are some jobs  if you're a waitress or your you know a surgeon you know we can't do all of it from home but it's clear that that  and you know people who still maybe go to school college there is more flexibility to do part of that course in an establishment yea because I think I think going forward that has to remain Um because I think for me as you know invested personal interest interest and for me i think the positives of that flexible work and studying outweigh the negative then i think we i think it's been proved that people can be productive without a travel to a specific place and i know sometimes it doesn't work for everyone but i think that's another thing the best that you know one i can't remember the by this but one shoe does not fit all you know that should be more flexibility of of how people are able to work ???? yea definitely and the backside issue trust again like adults have been trusted to get your work done to be supported if your struggling with its like to to right then is like a two way thing isn't it I think its quite an outdated attitude that that the two way relationship that we pay you then you must be here you know work is more complicated than that that especially in the twenty first century they want to gain satisfaction not just because it is the only job available well probably to require a not perfect point of view but you know definitely within the the spare the i know that’s very important  is not that yeah  well we live its quite its an area that lots of tourists come into and  and so it's a bit busier anyway but i think for me that will be more obvious in the winter and less vehicles on the road in the winter I think we have got busier but I don't think its back to its normal level but theres a lot more haulage on the roads there seems to be an awful lot more lorries on the road than what would what thats about really I haven't researched it but yeah certainly people are traveling  more and I suppose you know casual shopping trip and visit to friends days out of of stock I do wonder whether its some of this is people fee. that they've been so locked-in that at the moment everybody's planning lots and lots of things and i think it might calm down and i kind of hope over the winter we will see a drop in volume compared to to the winter the pandemic i i wish that this community spirit would continue so much find so much community support and it would be lovely if that continued without a threat of a pandemic because i think it draws communities together I think it you know makes people connected happier it's not just the people who volunteer at all but the people who are volunteering and i think it rises us above our kind of  attitude and acctually connects us as a tribe of people again I feel really strongly about that I think I am looking for living in a rural area were quite were very close you know we share tools  and surplus food and all sorts of things anyway but i've seen that happen in places by neighbors didnt part of the project i worked with at work is about matching volunteers with people who need and it's been great people felt with relationship and set about how to be better view of humanity and i think that's really an essential moving forward it's being one of the greatest thing out of the and i think that makes people more aware of the people around them and i think we've been stuck in a quite a in a insular rat race you know and that its were animals we  where basically socix animals arent we and I just think general wellbeing and health of our community as a whole will be better if we stay connected and hang on to the idea that not everything that we do should be kind a game based yeah i think so that going to have a global impact can't it you know be more tolerant people around us their differences and all of us connection helps deal with that you know you could say even political level international level worldwide your own street does not it It worries me   i don't fully understand it but it worries me that quite a shift in many countries quite extreme levels of politics not just during the pandemic but you know but the shift before the pandemic then another kind of shock results in elections and things and pandemic has been a bad time thinking about that but i have to admit that minds being another thing was during it and yeah but you know what that all about why a lot  of people going why are people waiting for strong or extreme and governments hmm no definitely  and during at the beginning of the pandemic we where trying to or when we were living guided by our government was one of the most frustrating thing then was that you know one party with making a decision in the next party was using it as raise their profile and at that point more than ever before i thought was like guys just get over yourselves and think about whats best to the people who live in the country and yehh all of that I don’t know if that gone away actually i think that definitely have not change  then i guess there was a little bit more international working during the pandamic with total polarization, you know during the pandemic but no total polarization now definitely started to hear a lot more about brexit again that was very quite during the worst months of the lock down and then suddenly I dont think thats yeah to one of the things that has changed in my working life but i hope me report from permanent change as wellbeing as on the agenda at work if not just a tick box exercise any more as they really highlighted that and for as well being will make a much different  to people make their duty set our managers have gone from the situation the way in the monitoring massive he had to go down the whole employee assistance counseling route you know they have brought in wellbeing action plans by encourage people and giving people time to look at what make them strong how they behave and not figure out who they talk to and they and they and actually our management how invested in that and i think thats made wellbeing a important factor in my organization and it's local government organizations so that’s you know I think thats  and i think i just will go forward and if you're cynical you could say ok so by doing this because they're making it your responsibility to not get stressed at work but i think investing in teaching people  about that its a really positive outcome yah I think it's a really positive before on that thing the change a changing relationship between employer employee this have to be an element of flexibility element flexibility thats more and more to the right is not it and I think it just developing  more further  and you know it could still be about profitability  because because if you where people working with you're going to have less sick days you know that is going to be waste of resources though so i'd like to thinking its not always about profitability but kind of works for everybody doesn't it well the from discriminating  along a woman in my earlly fifties definitely been moments so i have to hold my own in offices of  predominantly mxn in my previous work  like that one of the big things I think of the  flexibility is the kinds of luxury because you know it opens up the the workforce to people in this last requirement and be in certain bulding or to mix with certain society so I think umm you know work to do break my heart and i think we need the flexibility in maybe neuro  diverse or that are more likely to hold down a job that reflects that while they work and when they work and how they work you know for the physical disabilities may feel less held back yeah so many actually that really I think that potential for less discriminationmoving forward but then i am an eternal optimist oh i agree with callie i am not really a lovely to look back to things that would become more of a bit more tolerant of each other's differences but not treat them as a separate so you know we could work better and share resources better definitely but also the environmental issue i'd love to look back and think oh yeah we all recognize that we're starting to recover within the 18 month and we recognize that if we traveled less and we were  more carefull with our environment the absolutely would be correct that a big deal remember if we all drive to work one person per car it would be great if we say how lovely is that you know now we all go to work together that would be great I just been really the real great discussing with you all things yah and and a bit really anyway dunno about you guys I feel like okay generally people  feel like  this like maybe its only us four i don't know it's been lovely it's been really great experience time I am looking forward
